Johannesburg - An ongoing dispute over ownership of a Soweto house turned ugly when a man forcibly removed the occupants by razing it with a bulldozer. Neighbours, who had previously prevented him from taking over the house, saying he had acquired it fraudulently, could do nothing as the bulldozer reduced the four-roomed dwelling to rubble in a matter of minutes.Some cried. Others walked away, too distraught to watch. As Hilda Mbatha, who had lived in the house with her family for decades, watched it come down, neighbours sat with her, comforting her.When it was over, the 67-year-old woman, three children aged 6, 9 and 4, and their 41-year old mother Nomsa Xulu were homeless and had to be taken in by neighbours, who saved them from being out the hailstorm that hit Joburg on Wednesday.Xulu, who lived in the Phiri, Soweto, house with her three children and Mbatha, her aunt, said her uncle, who is Mbatha s younger brother, had sold the house, despite opposition from his siblings.Xulu said the alleged buyer asked them to leave but they refused, saying the house was not the uncle s, so he did not have the right to sell it. We told him to go get his money back. The second time, the man came with the Red Ants and security guards, who removed them from the house and put their furniture outside.Xulu said the guards stayed in house throughout the night. Neighbours had tried to get the family back into the house and a fight broke out between them and the guards. Bricks were hurled and during the melee one of the residents was shot, Xulu claimed. The community later said we should move into the house and we did, she said.The matter later went to court but the man never let go of it.On Wednesday, he arrived at the property with a bulldozer and a group of men, believed to be from a hostel. Some were allegedly carrying pangas and other weapons. One of the neighbours, who gave her name as Buhle, said some of the men got into the house and threw furniture out onto the street. Others started breaking the windows. The bulldozer moved in and started demolishing the house. When that happened, some people burst out crying, unable to believe what they were seeing. Some of us left, as we could not bear to watch what was happening. It was heartbreaking, she said.By the time Xulu arrived home, the house had already been demolished. I thought I was going to faint with shock. I thought the issue was getting finished, only for it to start again, she said.When she looked at the rubble which used to be her house, tears filled her eyes.On Thursday, the family went to the Moroka police station to open a case but the police did not allow them to. Spokesperson Constable John Serala said before they could open a case of malicious damage to property, the family had to bring a title deed to show the house was theirs.The Star was unable to speak to the buyer, as the family only knew him by his first name and didn t have his contact details. [email&#160;protected]The Star