Johannesburg - The family of a woman - murdered in an apparent case of mistaken identity - insist that officers didn t give a warning before opening fire.Instead, they apparently fired several rounds of ammunition at a car the woman and her family were travelling in during the early hours of Sunday morning in Lenasia South. The 57-year-old woman, who was in the back seat, was shot in the back of the head and died minutes later. Her 19-year-old daughter was shot in the leg and is recovering in hospital.A relative, who didn t want to be named, said the three other occupants were traumatised and wanted answers from authorities. He said the woman, her son and daughter, and two other teenagers were returning home around 1am. As they were about to pull into their driveway, they heard gunshots. The relative alleged that a police car approached them and started firing. He said the officers failed to get out of their car and attempt to find out who was in the vehicle before shooting. After the shots went off, the woman s son noticed she had been shot in the head. In a desperate bid to save her life, he rushed to a clinic about a kilometre away, but she died on the way.The police followed in their marked vehicle and allegedly continued to fire more rounds, which was when the woman s teenage daughter was shot.When the son, who was driving, pulled up outside the clinic, he got out the vehicle and stormed towards the officers. He told them they had no reason to shoot at the family, who had been returning from a fast food outlet. The relative said the officers didn t respond, and sped off.The family have reported the shooting to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate.Ipid spokesperson Moses Dlamini confirmed they were investigating but couldn t give details. However, a source close to the investigation said the police received a call about a shooting in Lenasia South Extension 1, close to the scene. When they arrived there, they allegedly witnessed shots coming from the direction of the vehicle the woman and her family were travelling in. They then apparently returned fire in an attempt to save their own lives and continued to shoot because they believed the occupants of the car were trying to drive off to avoid arrest. @Karishma_Dipa[email&#160;protected]The Star