Johannesburg - Institutions of higher learning need to be clearer on the proper policy processes when handling sexual assault and rape cases. In doing so, it s important that they strengthen their policies as and when they find any weaknesses. This is the view of researcher and gender analyst Nomboniso Gasa, who said bridging this gap was among her considerations when she decided to accept the appointment to be an independent investigator into how Wits University had dealt with a rape complaint at the institution s Junction Residence on October 30. When I was asked, I knew it was an important issue for South Africa and it would be important to understand what processes are in place and should be in place, not just for this woman, but for many others like her. Most importantly, it is an important investigation for the country and for various institutions who also need to be clear on their procedures in handling such cases, Gasa said on Sunday. On Friday, Wits vice-chancellor Professor Adam Habib announced Gasa s appointment to investigate whether there were any lapses on the part of the university s structures and officials in their responses to the rape complaint. This investigation will be in addition to another probe the university is conducting on the incident. Wits has given her four mandates, including: investigate the university s response and management of the rape complaint and the processes followed; and assess the role played by the office of residence life, student affairs, the gender equality office and other relevant Wits structures.She will then give her recommendations regarding any actions that should be taken to ensure that the university s structures are responsive to the needs and concerns of victims of rape, sexual harassment and gender-based harm, among others. Gasa said: I am aware that there is a lot at stake in this investigation. In accepting this appointment, I have committed myself to be independent, ethical, sensitive and inclusive. I will consult with members of the university community, including management, academics, students and feminist activists. I will also look at the policies and procedures that are in place and assess whether there were any lapses and in what ways these happen. The university has given her a 72-hour deadline.[email&#160;protected] The Star