Johannesburg - The conviction of former ANC Youth League leader Patrick Wisani for the murder of his girlfriend sets a good precedent for future offenders and places value on the lives of young black women. These were the views expressed by activists on Monday, when Wisani was found guilty of beating his girlfriend Nosipho Mandleleni to death with a broomstick and a sjambok in September last year.Nosipho s mother Noxolo burst into tears when Wisani was found guilty of the brutal murder. She sobbed uncontrollably after Judge Mahomed Ismail handed down the judgment in the high court sitting in Randburg. The court rejects the accused s version. He s convicted of all three counts as charged, said the judge.The ruling comes less than a week before the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children Campaign is due to start.Wisani, who was the ANCYL chairperson for the Joburg inner- city branch when he killed Nosipho, was also found guilty of the assault and intimidation of her twin sister and State witness, Siphokazi, and her friend, Zimbini Mathibe. He assaulted the pair in May in an attempt to prevent Siphokazi from testifying against him in the murder trial. Siphokazi testified that Wisani had threatened to kill you like I did your sister if she gave evidence to the court. Despite Wisani having claimed that Siphokazi and Mathibe had fabricated the assault on them, Judge Ismail accepted their evidence.He referred to Siphokazi s evidence stating that she had heard her sister screaming in Wisani s bedroom on the night of the murder and then seen him holding a bloodied, broken broomstick when she went to investigate.Although it was circumstantial evidence, it was strengthened by the testimony of another housemate, Zukiswa Solani, who also heard the couple arguing around the same time on the night of the incident. Neither of them saw Wisani assaulting the deceased, but they both placed him at the scene, said Judge Ismail. Wisani could face life imprisonment. Throughout proceedings, Wisani sat with his head down, taking notes. After the judgment, he told the friends and family members who had gathered around him: It s fine, we ll take it to the higher court, an indication that he might appeal the conviction.The small group of relatives and friends who were in court to support him were vastly outnumbered by a sea of activists wearing purple T-shirts with the words Stop violence against women printed on them.The activists, from various organisations calling themselves the Yeoville Bellevue No to GBV! Coalition, sang and danced outside the court. Amadoda ayasibulala (Men are killing us) and Noma besidubula besibulala siyaya (Even if they re shooting us, killing us, we are going forward) , they chanted.Chwayita Ngozi from People Opposing Women Abuse said: We are very happy. This sets a good precedent for future offenders. Elizabeth Letlhaku of the Yeoville Bellevue Ratepayers Association said: I m so full of relief and hope for our country that finally the life of a young black woman means something. We hope that we re sending a message that we will not tolerate our women being abused. The coalition also criticised the absence of the ANC Women s League throughout the trial, accusing them of being interested only in high-publicity cases such as the Oscar Pistorius murder trial. We think that it s an indictment of the Women s League that they have had no presence and have not taken the issue seriously, said the coalition s co-ordinator, Maurice Smithers. This was the murder of an ANCYL member by an ANCYL leader. They should have been up in arms about it and been vocal and visible. But they seem more interested in high-profile celebrity cases with lots of TV cameras than those involving ordinary community members who are much more exposed to this kind of violence. But the league hit back, claiming they had supported Nosipho s family during the trial. We didn t go to the media to say we are supporting the family, come and see us, (but) we were there at all times, said Sheshile Nkwanyana, regional secretary of the ANCWL. ANCYL Gauteng spokesperson Mbali Hlophe added: It remains truly unfortunate that one of our members is guilty of such an act. This goes against everything the organisation teaches and stands for. We expect exemplary behaviour from our members&acirc; &brvbar; We hope that Wisani will utilise his time behind bars to self-introspect and correct. [email&#160;protected]@Gabi_FalangaThe Star