Johannesburg - Today we declare war on drugs and the druglords. There will be no safe haven for druglords in Johannesburg. This was the stern warning that Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba gave on Monday at the launch of the re-energised K9 narcotics unit at the Joburg metro police department (JMPD) academy in Booysens.The mayoral committee member for public safety in the City of Joburg, Michael Sun, who hosted the launch, said the core function of the K9 narcotics unit was crime prevention and responding to serious and violent crimes. Due to the extensive nature of drug trafficking and drug use in Joburg, I have given a fresh mandate to focus on narcotics. These officers and dogs are a specialised unit trained to handle among others bomb threats, hijackings, robberies, drugs, kidnappings and counterfeit goods, Sun said.The newly revamped unit consists of 60 officers trained in special weapons and tactics, 19 dogs and 35 vehicles.With almost one in three homes in Joburg affected by drugs and substance abuse, narcotics had become one of the main causes of serious and violent crimes on a social level, he said. Families are not safe in their own homes from thievery, people living under the same roof with the addicts stealing, assaulting and killing their own relatives to maintain their addiction, Sun added.The unit gave a demonstration of its operations. Top dogs Giyana and Rex were able to find various types of drugs hidden in all sorts of places, including tyres and traffic cones, and even some hidden by their trainers in the seating area next to the mayor and the member of the mayoral committee.Among the drugs the canines are trained to sniff out are nyaope, cocaine and dagga.There were several display marches by the JMPD and Joburg Emergency Management Services. Guests were also treated to a moving performance of the national anthem by the JMPD choir.The trainers and their dogs stood on a grassy embankment at attention, positioned next to the new unmarked policing vehicles that will be used during investigations and busts, as the mayor took to the podium.Mashaba said unemployment was one of the main factors adding to the current drug epidemic in the city. More than any other problem, the drugs epidemic is representative of our city s deep social divide. He pointed out that in areas with low socio-economic status and high unemployment, such as Alexandra and Bosmont, drug abuse was on the increase, whereas this was not the case in the more affluent areas. We have to make our city safe to attract investment to Joburg if we re going to end unemployment, the mayor said. Combating substance abuse is not a task the government can tackle alone. We need a more holistic approach. It s only by working together that we will be able to effectively address the problem, Mashaba pointed out.[email&#160;protected]@Lanc_02The Star