Johannesburg - The family of an autistic child is deeply concerned after their son, Alexander Haddow, was forced to sign a declaration of undesirability at OR Tambo International Airport in August.A declaration of undesirability can carry a ban on returning to South Africa for up to five years.Fourteen-year-old Alexander, affectionately known as Sasha by his family, was travelling to England to visit his father and for schooling purposes. Being autistic, he has the developmental level of a five year-old. He can t be asked too many questions, explained his mom Tanya Goldberg.Autism is a lifelong, developmental disability that affects how a person communicates with and relates to other people, and how they experience the world around them.Goldberg explained that there aren t many schools locally that catered for autistic children which led his parents to decide to send him to his father in England where he s been enrolled in a special school.Although Alexander was born in England, his father is South African and the Haddows moved back to the country when he was three-years-old. His South African passport expired so he travelled out on his British documents. He was being accompanied by someone from the airline and didn t have anyone to back him up. He s a South African citizen and he has an ID based on his date of birth, so I don t understand why the immigration official at passport control didn t check the system, Goldberg said.She added that the immigration officer called her when Alexander was at passport control to confirm that he had a South African ID, which she did, but not on him. He was traumatised from the experience, he barely understands. They explained to him that he s no longer welcome in South Africa and this upset him, she added.Goldberg also voiced her concerns about the legality of forcing a minor to sign such a document.On the form it states that Alexander had overstayed in South Africa for 4 784 days.The Star was shown proof of his South African citizenship, ID number and birth certificate.Both Goldberg and her ex-husband, Hamish, have tried tirelessly to get in touch with Home Affairs to no avail. We ve had no communication from Home Affairs and no contact from them. As his mom I m worried especially about the distress they put him through because for an autistic child, it s a big trip. Imagine being told you can t come back especially when you have a mother and brother living in South Africa. I just want him to be able to come back into the country, Goldberg pleaded.Spokesperson for the Department of Home Affairs Mayihlome Tshwete insisted that they were looking at the issue. We have instituted an investigation into circumstances surrounding the matter. @Lanc_02[email&#160;protected]The Star