Johannesburg - A harrowing series of robberies at the TLC Children s Home in Eikenhof has left Founding Director and mother to many , Thea Jarvis and several of her adoptive children traumatised. I m scared, it s really horrible, there s no other way to describe it, it s like a horror movie, she told The Star, Thursday (today).In the latest of three separate break-ins in recent days, on Wednesday night a hijacked City of Joburg ambulance was used to gain entry onto the homes property again. One of my boys was jumping on the trampoline; the other was talking to security when the (hijacked) ambulance arrived at the gate. The armed men jumped out with guns and put my security and my boys inside the ambulance. There were paramedics also inside being held at gunpoint, Jarvis explained.Jarvis said the ambulance parked in the driveway and a third child then came out to see what was happening. He was also taken and put in the back. The men then left the premises and took them to a remote location where they beat my boys. They wanted information on safes and where money was kept. All that s in the safe is the kid s passports and Christmas cards, she said.The boys where then left at the remote place after the armed men robbed them of their shoes and cell phones. Physically they re doing okay now; they were roughed up and slapped around. Emotionally they are traumatised. One of the boys has to go for x-rays for something at the back of his head that the doctor is concerned about, we re also bringing in councillors for them tomorrow (Friday), Jarvis added.Prior to this incident, last Friday morning, several men broke into the home again and held Jarvis at gunpoint. It was about 4am, I heard some noise and thought it was one of the boys. I asked what s the matter? and I was told to get up. I was rolled out of the bed, she recalled.Jarvis said she saw several tall men in the room, one held her hands behind her back and put a gun to her temple and then inside her mouth. They kept asking where the safe was, I signaled that I couldn t tell them with a gun in my mouth. When he took the gun out, I screamed the most vicious scream. There are two bedrooms with four girls next to mine and I thought I have to save my girls, I have to save their lives even if I loose mine. If I stay quiet they ll kill me and do the same to the girls.The girls ran up screaming where they woke the 14 sleeping teenage boys, who in turn made a massive noise which frightened the robbers who then fled.As chaos ensued, Jarvis was hit by one of the men and thrown across the room.Some of their volunteers helping with their new borns were also tied up with wire and left there for two and a half hours.Also last week, another break-in saw several laptops, cell phones and R17 000 stolen from the children s home.Joburg Emergency Management Services (EMS) confirmed that two of their paramedics sustained minor injuries during the ordeal. The ambulance was hijacked after they responded to a call that a woman was in labour, they arrived where the patient was supposed to be but instead were held at gunpoint, stripped of their uniforms and forced into the back of the ambulance, said Joburg EMS spokesman Robert Mulaudzi.A police van noticed that the ambulance was driving recklessly and tried to pull it over when a shootout ensued between the armed men and police. Gauteng Police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele (corr) said the men escaped but a manhunt was underway for the six men involved. We appeal to anyone with information to please come forward, even if they were supposed to benefit from this, it s better if they tell us what they know, he said.A case of armed robbery, attempted murder and kidnapping has been opened.Jarvis said she was putting her heart out there and asking for any second-hand cell phones to replace the three stolen from the boys. She also asked for Nan formula, nappies, fresh fruit and vegetables, non perishable foods and cheap earphones for the Children s Home. @Lanc_02[email&#160;protected]The Star