Johannesburg - It s been another bloody weekend on Gauteng s roads following rain and reckless driving that has led to at least two people losing their lives and 41 being injured.In some of the more serious accidents, on Sunday night one person died and three others were injured in a collision on the M1 north by Grayston Drive.ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said that paramedics and other emergency services attended to the incident and found two people trapped in one of the vehicles. Sadly there was nothing that could be done for one of the patients. The man was declared dead and the other patient was in a critical condition. Fire and Rescue was on scene to extricate the patients from the vehicle, Meiring said.Two other patients sustained moderate injuries. In a statement, Emer-G-Med, which also attended the collision, said it was reported by witnesses that a vehicle travelling at a very high speed lost control in the wet weather. The vehicle collided with three other cars before the backend of the vehicle slammed into a concrete barrier.Authorities were on the scene for further investigations.Also on Sunday night one person died and six others were injured in a collision between two vehicles on Libanon Road in Westonaria. ER24 paramedics and other services attended to the incident. Upon arrival at the scene, paramedics found one man trapped in one of the vehicles. Sadly there was nothing that could be done for him. The man had sustained multiple severe injuries and was declared dead, Meiring said.He said that four other men were in a critical condition and two women sustained moderate injuries. One of the critically injured patients was airlifted to hospital and all other patients were transported to hospital by ambulance for further medical care, he added.Meiring said the exact cause of the incident is unknown and authorities were on scene for further investigations.Taxi crash in GreenstoneOn Saturday evening, 14 people were injured after a taxi and a car collided at the intersection of Modderfontein and Centenary roads, in Greenstone. According to Emer-G-Med spokesperson Maxwell Cohen, paramedics arrived to find that 14 patients had sustained injuries ranging from minor to moderate. Some were seated on the pavement and others walking around the scene. The patients were treated at the scene before being transported to various nearby hospitals, he said.Also on Saturday night Emer-G-Med attended to a single vehicle rollover on the corner of Cedar and Comet roads in Boksburg which left two people injured. On arrival paramedics found that the vehicle had rolled multiple times, coming to a rest in the middle of the road, said Cohen. Both patients sustained moderate to serious injuries, with one requiring Advanced Life Support care. The patients were transported by Emer-G-Med to a nearby facility for further management, he said.On Saturday afternoon a wedding convoy carrying a bride was involved in an accident after being rear-ended by a bakkie on Allandale and Mastiff Roads, in Midrand. A total of six people were injured in the crash. They were treated at the scene before being transported to various nearby facilities for further care, Cohen said.In a separate incident on Saturday morning, Emer-G-Med attended to a collision on the corner of Katherine and Pretoria streets, in Sandhurst. On arrival paramedics found that five people had been injured, after two cars collided causing one to veer into a pole, Cohen explained.He added that the patients sustained injuries ranging from minor to moderate and were transported to various nearby hospitals for further treatment.The Star Like us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Subscribe to our Newsletter