Johannesburg - Ranting real estate agent Vicky Momberg has been ditched by her lawyer Nardus Grove after a wrangle about his legal fees.Meanwhile, the Equality Court was baffled when Momberg said she had been told to apply to the court to fund her legal representatives. Momberg became infamous earlier this year after a video emerged of her verbally attacking police officers assisting her following a smash-and-grab incident. Uttering swear words and racial slurs, Momberg has since been charged with four counts of crimen injuria. She is also facing a fine by the Equality Court of up to R150 000. On Tuesday, Momberg made a surprise appearance in the Randburg Magistrate s Court, after her criminal trial was initially set down for the end of January. She said Grove had sent her a letter on Friday, declaring that he was withdrawing as her legal representative in the case.She explained she needed time to get a new lawyer, but that she still intended to apply for a plea bargain - a section 105 application - and admit her guilt. While a psychologist s report is set to be used during the application to explain her behaviour at the time, she told the court yesterday that a criminologist s report she wished to use was still outstanding. Momberg rejected the presiding magistrate s offer to apply for a legal aid lawyer, and her case was postponed to December 6 to sort out her own representation. This was to ensure that her trial or plea deal could be finalised by January, as previously arranged. Momberg then made her way upstairs to the Randburg Equality Court room, where she once again had to represent herself. Magistrate Naren Sewnarain explained that despite the proceedings being initiated in early October by one of the officers and the Human Rights Commission, Momberg and her lawyer had failed to respond to the allegations within the allocated 10- day period. Momberg explained she had been going through a lot of stress but that she had expected her lawyer to handle it. She explained the situation with Grove and being financially unable to afford him. The magistrate ordered Momberg to ensure that her new counsel tried to construct a written response to the Equality Court complaint when she appears again next Thursday.[email&#160;protected]The Star