Johannesburg She was screaming, it was a horrible screeching sound, she was holding her daughter who was also in pain. We didn t know what to do. These were the words of a Newclare woman who witnessed Wednesday s shooting where a 33-year-old man was killed and 13-year-old girl wounded.The woman, who asked to remain anonymous for safety reasons, said the shooting happened around 3pm. I was in my kitchen, my two young boys were playing outside our flat when I heard the first shots. I got down onto the floor away from the windows. I started shouting for my sons and I didn t hear them call back, my blood went cold. That s when I heard another woman screaming, she said.When the shooting stopped she ran out and saw a mother on the ground with her child who was crying. The mother was bleeding on her hand and the girl on her arm, she was crying. The mother was holding her daughter. I was looking all over for my sons and I saw them, my little one was crying, both had hidden behind a tree, she said. I m so afraid for my family and for my children there are so many people here that have lost loved ones, I m scared it s just a matter of time. Who will be next? the woman questioned.Another witness who only identified herself as Sheree said that this was a daily occurrence and although it had slowed down following a march earlier this year, it had started again and was getting worse. There are children around, it s holidays now so everyone is playing outside and trying to have fun, how are we supposed to protect our families when these people don t care who they re shooting at? It just has to stop, the police must do their jobs! she said.Although both women said the girl's mom was also injured, police were not able to confirm this.Gauteng police spokesman Captain Mavela Masondo said it was alleged that a white vehicle with four men inside, was driving past when the occupants randomly starting shooting. They shot at the deceased and the other bullet hit the girl in the shoulder. The little girl was taken to the nearest hospital for medical treatment and later discharged. According to Masondo the motive for the killing is not known at the moment but witnesses believe that it is drug or gang-related. Police are investigating a case of murder and attempted murder, he added.In a separate incident on Sunday, in the neighbouring Westbury, police arrested two men following a random shooting in which five people were shot and wounded. Two victims who were shot in the upper body and they are in a serious but stable condition. Three were wounded in the lower body. All five were taken to the Helen Joseph Memorial Hospital and are recovering there, Dlamini said.Last month a shooting outside a school in Newclare, which was allegedly gang related, left two people injured.The mothers in the community plan to host anti-violence march in the near future and the community leaders will be meeting with police today. [email&#160;protected] @Lanc_02The Star