Johannesburg The Department of Correctional Services has clarified rumours about hip-hop star Molemo Jub Jub Maarohanye s reported imminent release from prison following his visit to his parents home this weekend.Maarohanye and co-accused Themba Tshabalala are serving an eight-year sentence each for killing four teenagers while drag-racing in Soweto in 2010. They started serving their sentences in 2012.According to Correctional Services spokesman Singabakho Nxumalo, once an offender serves half of their sentence, they are eligible to undergo a parole process which, if successful, could result in a release. December 2016 then means that possibilities of parole can be reviewed as they have served half of their eight-year imprisonment process, said Nxumalo.He said the process was conducted by an independent parole board and included home visits as a way to monitor how an offender fitted back into society. He said that was in the best interest of the victims as well as the offender s entrance back into society. This process protects both parties. We encourage this process to make sure that once an offender is rehabilitated, their release should not infringe on anyone. This (process) includes countless consultations with affected families and community members, said Nxumalo.There are allegations that while at home this past weekend, Jub Jub s girlfriend, Vanessa Mgcina, reported that the star had assaulted her. However, she later withdrew the charge. Nxumalo said they were aware of that and although Mgcina had withdrawn the case, an investigation into the matter continued. We will continue to investigate the matter, and it will be going on record for when the issue of his parole is reviewed, he said.Maarohanye and Tshabalala were initially convicted of murder and each slapped with a 20-year sentence.However, they appealed and the murder conviction was overturned and changed to culpable homicide, and their sentences were reduced to 10 years, two of which were suspended.When The Star contacted a family member of one of the dead teens, the aunt refused to comment on Maarohanye s reportedly imminent release or her knowledge of or involvement in the parole process.The date of release remains unknown until the board concludes all findings. @June_Hlongwane1The Star