Johannesburg - One of the people who died inside a building in Marlboro did not live there. She had just left her house to visit a friend in the building when it caught fire and was razed to the ground.Charmaine Molepo was one of three people, including a four-month-old baby and a man, who died when an abandoned building, occupied by scores of economic migrants, caught fire at about 9am on Sunday.Her face etched with pain, Linah Molepo, Charmaine s mother, said her daughter had not lived in the building but had gone there to visit a friend. Hearing from a neighbour that the building down the road from their house was on fire, she rushed over still holding a cup of tea in her hand to check whether her daughter was safe. I started to ask around where my daughter was. A young lady told me that she saw Charmaine breaking a door open to escape with other people. People said they saw her escape the fire. I keep asking myself whether she went back inside to check on her friends. I don t know, Molepo said.She said she had become suspicious when people kept telling her that they saw Charmaine, 20, on her way to church, when she knew that she had not gone there. I wanted to force my way into the building to go and look for my daughter myself. But the community held me back I asked my daughter s friend to go inside to look, and she was the one who told me she saw Charmaine s mortal remains, Molepo said.The friend, Lehlohonolo Kgotwane, said that although the Molepo family still needed to officially identify her remains, the body she saw was that of her friend.Johannesburg Emergency Management Services spokesperson Nana Radebe confirmed that the three who died had succumbed to burns, with two other people taken to hospital for smoke inhalation. She said that from preliminary investigations, a faulty two-plate stove was suspected to be the cause of the fire. The community, however, disputes that. Community leader David Mogola, who had lived in the building for 16 years, said residents suspected arson and a person was alleged to have set a plastic bag full of faeces alight causing the building to be engulfed by flames.Mogola and the president of the Concerned Residents of SA, April Lekalakala, said this was part of a witchcraft ritual. Some of the residents are really hurt because if the person who burnt the plastic had just thrown it far away, all of us would be safe now. Right now we are going to sleep outside with no food or blankets. I have seven children who I don t know how to assist, Mogola said, adding that at least 84 other people were in the same predicament.&nbsp;Police spokesperson Kay Makhubela confirmed that the building had been cordoned off and that forensic investigators would ascertain the fire s cause once the dog unit ended its search for possible remains. Makhubela would not be drawn into the allegations of burnt faeces, but said residents were free to give the police information. The Star