Johannesburg - Despite some criticism from the public, Operation SA founders Yusuf Abramjee, Yaseen Theba and Catherine Constantinides are standing firm in their pledge to help Syrian refugees and those fleeing the carnage in Aleppo. On Wednesday at hotel 10 2nd Avenue Houghton Estate, Abramjee and Theba presented nearly R10 million to several charities helping to alleviate the Syrian humanitarian crisis. Abramjee explained that some people had asked why they weren't helping South Africans but he made it clear that next year, that would become his organisation s focus. To those who have been critical of us, shame on you. How can we, as South Africans, sit back and do nothing? We cannot, he said. This could be your mother or your child. During the handover Abramjee announced that by 8am on Wednesday more than R14 million had been pledged in the last 10 days. A large amount of the money raised came from people from other faiths. This is not a Christian, Jewish or Hindu issue. It s a humanitarian issue. There's a desperate need for food, medicines, clothing, blankets and shelters. &quot;We want to ensure that the aid reaches the people of Syria without delay, he said.Staunch supporter of Operation SA s #SaveSyria initiative, former public protector Thuli Madonsela said: The biggest mistake we can make is doing nothing. Small acts of kindness can change people s hearts and small acts of kindness can change the course of history. Seeing that people care will engineer a mind shift. It s not just about clothes or food, it s a realisation that it s human beings who don t look like me, who are from different faiths, care, she said. As long as there is suffering somewhere and as long as there are injustices, there is no possibility for sustainable peace, Madonsela added.In his closing address Abramjee said the campaign was about ubuntu. We, as South Africans, are taking it forward, our hearts are with the people of Syria. The money raised will go toward food packs, sanitary packs, medical aid, orphanage programmes and tent projects for displaced Syrians and residents of Aleppo.Operation SA plans to present the remaining money to the charities in January.The organisation has appealed to the public to continue making on-line pledges on the website www.operationsa.orgDonation pledges can also be made via WhatsApp and through SMS at 0723999999. @Lanc_02The Star