Johannesburg - Hawks head Berning Ntlemeza is now weighing his next move against his adversary Ipid head Robert McBride after the latter refused to cooperate with an investigation. This is the latest episode in the drama that the has seen the country s security agencies lock horns in investigations against each other. On Monday McBride issued a statement saying he had refused to give the Hawks a warning statement in an investigation against him, labelling the probe as baseless. The investigation is understood to relate to a 2006 attempted murder case in Boksburg when McBride was still Ekurhuleni metro police chief. Responding to McBride s comments, Hawks spokesman, Hangwani Mulaudzi &nbsp;on Tuesday said the directorate was concerned at the ongoing views expressed by the Ipid in relation to work of the Hawks. It is unfortunate that colleagues have resorted to communicating internal security matters using media interviews and information leaks, he said in a statement. He said was not in the nature of the Hawks to conduct its work and investigations in the public . However, he said, the recent misleading statements by Ipid had prompted the Hawks to respond. It is a matter of fact that the Hawks are, indeed, conducting several investigations which we cannot reveal into serious and sensitive cases against (McBride) and his associates. Instead of seeking media and public sympathy, (McBride) should instead cooperate with the investigation, he said. He clarified that the cases being investigated by the Hawks against McBride were not initiated by the office but had been referred to the Hawks for further investigation. It is therefore unfounded that there is a plot against McBride led by Police Minister (Nathi Nhleko) and Ntlemeza, as he would want the public to believe, he said. Mulaudzi said the directorate took serious exception , to McBride s refusal to present himself to the Hawks offices for warning statements . As such, we are considering the next course of action. Lieutenant General Ntlemeza was requested by the Ipid on 12 December 2016, to provide warning statements on two cases of alleged perjury and crimen injuria at the Hawks offices to which he complied in the interest of justice, he said. He said it was concerning in the extreme that the McBride continued to use the name of the Police Minister Nathi Nhleko in accusing him of having a vendetta against him. He reiterated that the investigation against McBride had nothing to do with Nhleko. We are making a call using a public platform, to our respected colleagues to desist from the public mudslinging and misinformation whatever the motive. If colleagues wish to express any dissatisfaction we urge them to use the correct platforms and appropriate communication channels, he said. He said the Hawks would continue with investigations regardless of the no amount of intimidation and unreasonable judgements in the courts of public opinion . [email&#160;protected] @Sihle_MGThe Star