Johannesburg In a suspected act of sadistic revenge, a Germiston man was forced to watch the gang rape of his girlfriend before he was shot in the face.On Tuesday night, the couple were walking on the side of the road in the Dikatole informal settlement when they were accosted by a group of men. Brakpan police spokesperson Captain Pearl van Staad said the pair noticed three vehicles parked on the roadside.Two men apparently got out of the vehicle and approached them. A third man was waiting in the car. They pointed a firearm at the couple, robbed them of their cellphones and cash, and began assaulting the boyfriend. They then shot him in a leg and forced the woman into the car. After forcing her into the car, the men emerged with her, took her into the veld and gang-raped her several times in front of her wounded and helpless boyfriend, who lay on the ground and was forced to watch as she was violated, Van Staad said. He was there while it was happening. After raping her, they forced them both in the car and repeatedly asked if the boyfriend had a firearm and where it was. The woman told the police that the men kept asking her and her boyfriend about a firearm and drove around with them for some time to Reiger Park. The couple kept answering that there was no firearm, and they were not sure what the men wanted, Van Staad added. The attackers then shot the boyfriend in the face and threw them both out the car in Reiger Park. It s believed that the boyfriend died instantly after being shot in the face, she said.Van Staad said that a short while later, some police officers in their patrol vehicle saw the woman next to the body and stopped. They picked her up and took her to Reiger Park police station.Community members who spoke to The Star on condition of anonymity, because they too fear for their lives, said two women had since fled the informal settlement after hearing about the incident. Local residents have alleged that the woman who was gang-raped was part of a syndicate comprising women pretending to be prostitutes and luring unsuspecting clients to be mugged by their male accomplices. What they did was rob the men, who thought they were prostitutes. They would stand on the side of the road and wait for customers. But the customers did not know they were being set up for robberies, one community member claimed. According to sources within the community, those responsible for Tuesday s savage attack were allegedly previously duped by the syndicate. This guy knew her (the rape victim) from Limpopo, where they all came from. He traced her by questioning her family in Limpopo with regard to her whereabouts in Joburg. Without knowing what it was related to, they informed him that she was living in the Dikatole settlement, one source said. Upon acquiring this information, it is believed that the man began hunting the woman down to wreak vengeance after he had been robbed. Van Staad said she could not confirm the allegations made by the community members, as the docket had not been assigned to an investigating officer. I can t confirm it, but we are not ruling it out as investigations are still under way, she said.The police are aware that the pair were being hunted down. The victim is extremely traumatised, she added.The Star