Johannesburg - The Uber driver accused of kidnapping, assaulting and raping clients has accused police of wrongful arrest and illegal identity parades. He said he was being accused of crimes in which there was no evidence.On July 6, a 64-year-old woman - who cannot be named by order of the court - was attacked, allegedly by two men hiding in the boot of an Uber vehicle she had ordered in Fourways.According to detectives, the men assaulted her and took her to a secluded spot, where she was raped and robbed.About a month later, a couple were attacked in a similar manner after ordering an Uber ride home from the Movida nightclub in Sunninghill, Sandton. Two men hiding in the boot of the vehicle pushed the back seats out, stabbed the man and put his girlfriend in the boot. They were assaulted and robbed, and the woman was raped. While police initially arrested two men for the crimes, the pair were released after the case was provisionally withdrawn in the Randburg Magistrate s Court. But a short while later, the pair were rearrested, and on Thursday the 25-year-old driver began his application for bail.In an affidavit read out by his lawyer, Vincent Makamu, the man said that even though he did not have to disclose his defence, he wished to make certain representations to the court. He said that while he was arrested in August and released two days later, it was on September 16 that the investigating officer invited him to a meeting to discuss the case. Wanting to co-operate, the man went to meet with the officer and was subsequently arrested, allegedly without a warrant.He then said that he was forced to participate in an identity parade without his lawyer, and was later informed he had been pointed out by one of the victims of the attacks.However, according to his affidavit, even though he admitted to being the driver of the vehicle that transported the victims, he did not remember who they were as he had numerous clients. The alleged offences must have been committed after he had dropped off his clients, he said, although he did not explain how the men were allegedly spotted climbing out of the boot of his car to carry out the attacks.The statement claimed the State had little evidence against him, and that as he did not pose a flight risk, he should be released on bail. The application was postponed as his co-accused and his lawyer had not yet completed the bail bid. The case continues. [email&#160;protected]The Star