Johannesburg - When Mandisa Mlambo saw the kidnappers pack her baby boy s clothes and nappies and take him away, she had a feeling that he would be returned home unharmed. She also hoped for divine intervention.Siyabonga was stolen on Tuesday night in what seemed to have been a house robbery in Protea Glen.The boy s nanny and two accomplices were due to appear in the Protea Magistrate s Court on Monday. I saw that deep down somewhere they had a conscience. and I believed that they would not harm my baby. I knew they would not do anything to him and that he would come back to me. As a God-fearing woman, I had faith, Mlambo said on Sunday, speaking to The Star from her Protea Glen home in Soweto.She recalled how a phone call on Thursday evening had made her anxious. The police asked her to accompany them to Newcastle in KwaZulu-Natal to identify a baby that they said might be hers. The long trip took them to a house where they found a woman who had offered to take care of the baby, not knowing he had been abducted.Tears of joy streamed down Mlambo s face as she was reunited with her 14-month-old toddler, Siyabonga. When I saw him, I just cried. I never even cared to dig deeper about how my baby was found, my focus was just to take him back home, she said.The Saturday Star reported at the weekend that a Newcastle child s innocent eavesdropping turned out to be the unexpected lucky break that led to police catching two suspects.The police did not name the child hero from northern KwaZulu-Natal, but said in a media briefing on Friday that the boy had overheard his parents talking about the kidnapping and passed on information for them to call the police.The child apparently gave an accurate description of Siyabonga as well as of the men who turned out to be his alleged kidnappers.Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said investigations were continuing to track down the fourth suspect.Until last week, Mlambo had no reason to suspect the nanny. She left her baby in her care as she had to return to work in December last year. The woman has four children of her own. I treated her like a friend and did everything in my power to make her comfortable in the house. I never suspected her at all, the Mlambo said. june.hlongwane@inl.co.zaThe Star