Johannesburg - SABC board chairperson professor Mbulaheni Maguvhe says he is not going anywhere.He remained defiant in the face of growing calls for the remaining board members to resign, saying he was ready for the inquiry into the SABC board's fitness to hold office. The portfolio committee on communications in Parliament decided on the inquiry this week following the sustained clamour for the axing of Hlaudi Motsoeneng as head of corporate affairs, and for the board to be dissolved.Maguvhe said on Thursday that the members would not be bullied by Parliamentarians into resigning, after two board members, Krish Naidoo and Vusi Mavuso, tendered their resignations in Parliament on Wednesday, saying the board was dysfunctional.The chairperson heaped praise on the board, saying it was being targeted because of its diligent work in rooting out corruption and other malpractices.&quot;I'm still waiting for the letter that is supposed to be coming to me, bullying me to resign. They want to make me, through the so-called inquiry, become a coward. Let the inquiry come, I'm ready for it, it means I'm going nowhere. I am going nowhere, even if the inquiry comes.&quot; Maguvhe said that before he was appointed, he was a Unisa professor. &quot;I didn't come to this board because of boredom.&quot;He made the remarks during a media briefing at the SABC's Auckland Park headquarters in Joburg on Thursday.Maguvhe lashed out at Naidoo and Mavuso, saying they were not as professional as they purported to be.A controversial figure viewed as close to President Jacob Zuma and Communications Minister Faith Muthambi, Motsoeneng was appointed to his old job after a recent ruling by the Supreme Court of Appeal confirming a decision by the Western Cape High Court invalidating his appointment as chief operating officer.Motsoeneng said people had confidence in him, and that his future was dependent on no one. He said he could leave the SABC, start his own company and leave with half the public broadcaster's staff as his employees.&quot;I've been a broadcaster all my life (starting) from the 1990s, and I'm the only person who has done everything, from freelancing, reporting within the organisation,&quot; he said, adding that most managers in the broadcaster were qualified, but if he were to take them head on, &quot;they know I'd mesmerise them because I have done it (all). I didn't read it from the book. SABC decisions - 80 percent (of the time) I'm the one who's influencing the SABC on broadcasting issues&quot;.Motsoeneng said he would not go back to school because &quot;I'm able to do everything that I can do. I'm able to beat those people with degrees&quot;. Because of his &quot;unique expertise on leadership&quot;, he was often invited by universities to lecture students.He lashed out at people with degrees who did not read, saying: &quot;I read a lot. I know what is happening in South Africa. Somebody was telling me: You know, Hlaudi, after leaving the SABC you can't be employed anywhere.' Haha! Everybody is after Hlaudi. Everywhere I go in the world, people acknowledge Hlaudi.&quot; He said a week would be too long for him to get another job. He said he would not be distracted by his detractors. The DA has said it would approach the Western Cape High Court to have the remaining board members removed. @luyolomkentane [email&#160;protected]The Star